* Task: Create an action plan

What strategies from today can you apply to writing your next document, or rewriting the document you brought? Create a to-do list of next steps for yourself.

* Takeaways
:PROPERTIES:
:SENT-ON:  Fri Feb 24 17:52:10 2017
:TO:       Stephen Kevin Jones <stephen.kevin.jones@gmail.com>
:END:
1. What have you learned?
2. What will you do differently going forward?
3. What are your next steps for applying these techniques?

Quinn: Definitely the question method. I never had that part before, and I never knew how to start. Concision and cutting you're into taught in school, but the question method was new.

The other piece is getting feedback earlier, getting feedback right after you do the question method, so that we don't waste time polishing the prose on sections that might get cut later.

Chet: For me the big takeaway is applying the question method to projects at the beginning. We talked about applying the question method to documents, which actually is for the later stages of a project. But actually applying the question method at the beginning of a project I think will help generate a task list even before I start writing the doc, and force me to write the doc earlier too.

Ryan: In terms of outcomes and what I learned: Being succinct and defensible in what I'm saying. As I was writing prose toward the end of the workshop today where I felt like, this will actually stand up to the attack! Going forward, I'm going to take it upon myself to set a deadline, then have pencils down, thoughtful review time before sharing a document.

Molly: I said at the beginning that I take forever to write. I like that this is systematic, I can make beginning and endpoints, make those steps for myself so I'm not just endlessly spinning on writing and editing. I'm excited about that. I like Adam's writing buddy idea too, right now it's basically my boss and her boss looking at my docs. I could use someone more tangential to the project to make sure it's clear. I thought it was great!

John: One of the things this structure helps me the most with is I tend to dump everything in my brain onto paper to show I've looked at everything, like at Amazon you get rewarded for showing you've looked at every single thing. So I think reorienting the purpose of the doc to "so what" and driving impact to it - that will be powerful. I used to just barf data onto paper and then draw a conclusion at the end.

Ann: Overall I'm going to be a much more efficient document writer, starting with the question method. I used to like you said try to strategize in my head and then it was just writing writing writing, and then at the end be like, "Oh man, I need to restructure this." The question method helped me come up with headlines for sections faster. It was also helpful to go section by section and trim for concision and make language more precise. I'll Maybe do that as I finish each section, instead of having to look at this big spaghetti at the end. I just feel like the question method makes so much sense, like, "Duh, of course every section should be answering a question!" I very much appreciate these new techniques!

Lisa: The question method is going to be a much more efficient way to start, and I think it will lead to a really productive outline so we can get feedback from our own managers before we go too far down a path that we later have to rewind. That's where a lot of frustration has come from, I think, we didn't agree on the questions. Making sure that's solid, that's going to be really powerful to see it in action, so I'm really excited.

And also I think really forcing yourself to be logical and ask why. Just being very clear in your thinking up front. It's a common thread---we've all started the process by doing the brain dump, that's pretty much how we all began writing docs, and that's what led to the issues we've had with the reviews. So that's a clear action item: We're not going to do that anymore. We're going to start with the question method and that's going what's going to lead to the information we're going to gather and put in the doc.

The curse of knowledge is a good call out too. We get really deep in our own areas, assuming the reader's going to be right there with us, and that leads to leaving out a lot of important details.


Chet: move up review process? Do earlier.

Jared: When I say don't start reeling off facts and numbers without first giving context, I *don't* mean you have to start with the solution. Problem, solution.

John: I think deductively. I'm used to doing fact, fact, fact, conclusion.

* Stephen
Circulate a survey.

- play it back to the client so they know it's valuable
- then if they want to do a reference check, I can share it.

Send a Google form and ask Lisa to circulate it.
- it has to look professional
- make it anonymous

use SurveyMonkey

Make the form. I got a survey from Porsche Canada

What did you like about it?

What areas of improvement?

It's all infrastructure.

Bit by bit, invest some more into the website. Vivovii is going to version 3.

Stephen on degrees of success.

If you do a great job, people don't regret paying for you.

If you do an amazing job, then if there's something else they want and you're right there in front of them, then you get the next job too.

If you do it better than they could have ever hoped for, then what happens is they'll actually start looking for ways to use you in any way they can. That's the holy grail, when they start to see their own value as driven by you.

Stephen - he really loves helping people think about how to succeed in business. Like how he helped Evan with all that. He really loves it. So he's the perfect person to mentor me on how to grow this.

* Redfin postmortem
Hey everyone,

Just wanted to thank you all again for a terrific session. I really appreciated how engaged you all were.

You seemed like you all wanted to be there, had great questions

Something you really needed

Allows me to tailor to something that actually helps you

Share the slides

I'd love to work with you again




* Mia
they really went crazy for the question method



* 1:1 conferences

** Yong
How do we talk about our division's "culture"? What's our philosophy? 10 tenets

** Jared
Problem agitation solution
hey you guys, we have a problem. Here's how we know it's a problem. But don't worry, I have a solution. Here's what the solution is.

** Quinn
Problem solution
